Adding ADO service principal (#6647)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/git/setup-azure.md

## Add another redirect URI

> A Microsoft Entra ID admin needs to add another redirect URI to your Entra ID application. This redirect URI will be used to authenticate the service user for headless actions in deployment environments.

Reviewer: On step number 6 above it says ` Add a redirect URI by selecting...` are we leaving that in place for service user or is it not needed now?

Author: I guess we should remove all of that.

## Add another redirect URI

> A Microsoft Entra ID admin needs to add another redirect URI to your Entra ID application. This redirect URI will be used to authenticate the service principal for headless actions in deployment environments.

Reviewer: With service principal I don't think we need to add redirect uri to the entra app anymore. But if they are switching from service user to service principal with the same application credentials, they can just keep the redirect uri

> A Microsoft Entra ID admin needs to add another redirect URI to your Entra ID application. This redirect URI will be used to authenticate the service principal for headless actions in deployment environments.

Author: ```suggestion
```

1. Navigate to your Microsoft Entra ID application.

2. Select the link next to **Redirect URIs**
3. Click **Add URI** and add the URI, replacing `YOUR_ACCESS_URL` with the [appropriate Access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses) for your region and plan:

> `https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/complete/azure_active_directory_service_principal`

Reviewer: Probably don't need this part either. But you could mention perhaps that if they are switching from service user to service principal they don't need to remove the redirect uris. Probably preferred to not remove them if they want to switch back to service user.

> `https://YOUR_ACCESS_URL/complete/azure_active_directory_service_principal`

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Azure Service Administrator
- Azure Co-administrator

If your Azure DevOps account is connected to Entra ID, then you can proceed to [Connect a service principal](#connect-a-service-principal). However, if you're just getting set up, connect Azure DevOps to the Microsoft Entra ID app you just created:

1. From your Azure DevOps account, select **Organization settings** in the bottom left.

> 2. Navigate to Microsoft Entra ID.

Reviewer: This part is incorrect for service principal (unless these are for service user). For service principal, you go to org settings -> navigate to users -> add users -> search and add your application as a service principal in the search bar -> add projects for `Add to projects` and also for `Azure DevOps Groups` select `Project Administrators` (this is important for being able to create webhooks)

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/connecting-azure-devops/connect AD to Azure DevOps.gif" title="Connecting Azure DevOps and Microsoft Entra ID"/>

## Prepare the dbt Cloud connection

There are two connection methods currently available for dbt Cloud and Azure DevOps:
- Service principal (recommended): Create an application connection via client ID and secret for unattended authentication.
- Service user (legacy): Create a user that will authenticate the connection with username and password. This configuration should be avoided.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="Service principal">

## Create a service principal

> The apps service principal is a representation of the Entra ID application object. Whereas a service user represents a real user in Azure with an Entra ID (and an applicable license), the service principal is a secure identity used by an application to access Azure resources unattended. The service principal authenticates with a client ID and secret rather than username and password (or any other form of user auth). Service principals are the [Microsoft recommended method](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/architecture/secure-service-accounts#types-of-microsoft-entra-service-accounts) for authenticating apps and are the default method for dbt Clouds integration with Azure DevOps. 

Author: ```suggestion
The application's service principal represents the Entra ID application object. Whereas a service user represents a real user in Azure with an Entra ID (and an applicable license), the service principal is a secure identity used by an application to access Azure resources unattended. The service principal authenticates with a client ID and secret rather than a username and password (or any other form of user auth). Service principals are the [Microsoft recommended method](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/architecture/secure-service-accounts#types-of-microsoft-entra-service-accounts) for authenticating apps. 
```

### Add a role to the Service Principal

> You can create a new role or assign an existing to the service principal app. It must have the following permissions:

Author: ```suggestion
You can create a new role or assign an existing one to the service principal app. It must have the following permissions:
```

- **Project Reader**
- **ViewSubscriptions**
- **EditSubscriptions**
- **DeleteSubscriptions** *
- **PullRequestContribute**
- **GenericContribute**

> 

Author: ```suggestion

In your Azure account:

```

> 1. In your Azure account, navigate to **Subscriptions** and click on the name of the subscription with the app. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Subscriptions** and click on the appropriate subscription name for the application environment. 
```

> 2. From the subscription window, click **Access control (IAM)**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. From the left-side menu of the subscription window, click **Access control (IAM)**.
```

> 3. From the top menu, click **Add** and click **Add role assignment**.

Author: ```suggestion
3. From the top menu, click **Add** and select **Add role assignment** from the dropdown.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/cloud-integrations/azure-subscription.png" width="60%" title="The 'Access control (IAM)' window in the 'Subscriptions' section of Azure."/>

> 4. In the **Role** tab, select a role with appropriate permissions to assign the service principal. 

Author: ```suggestion
4. In the **Role** tab, select a role with appropriate permissions to assign the service principal. 
```

> 5. Click the **Members** tab. Make sure **Assign access to** is set to **User, group, or service principal**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Click the **Members** tab. You must set **Assign access to** to **User, group, or service principal**.
```

> 5. Click **Select members** and search for your app name in the window. Once it appears, click your app and it will appear in **Selected members** section. Click **Select**.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Click **Select members** and search for your app name in the window. Once it appears, click your app, which will appear in the **Selected members** section. Click **Select** at the bottom to save your selection.
```

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/cloud-integrations/assign-app-to-members.png" width="80%" title="The dbt Cloud ADO app in the members section."/>

5. Confirm the details are correct and click **Review + assign**.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/cloud-integrations/review-and-assign.png" width="80%" title="Review screen with the app service principal and permissions."/>

Navigate back to the **App registrations** screen and click the app. On the left menu, click **Roles and administrators** and you will see the app role assignment. 

### Migrate to service principal

> If your dbt Cloud app does not have a service principal:

Author: ```suggestion
If your dbt Cloud app does not have a service principal, take the following actions in your Azure account:
```

> 1. In Azure, navigate to **Microsoft Entra ID**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Microsoft Entra ID**.
```

2. Under **Manage** on the left-side menu, click **App registrations**.

> 3. Click the app you are using for the dbt Cloud and Azure DevOps integration.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Click the app for the dbt Cloud and Azure DevOps integration.
```

- `vso.project`: Grants the ability to read projects and teams.
- `vso.build_execute`: Grants the ability to access build artifacts, including build results, definitions, and requests, and the ability to queue a build, update build properties, and the ability to receive notifications about build events with service hooks.
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Add your Microsoft Entra ID app to dbt Cloud

> A dbt Cloud account admin needs to perform the following steps. 

Author: ```suggestion
A dbt Cloud account admin must take the following actions.
```
